---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "personio_employee Data Source - terraform-provider-personio"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Employee data source
  Retrieves one employee by Personio ID and their attributes. The set of attributes that have a non-null value
  is defined by the configuration of the API credential in Personio ("Readable employee attributes").
  Certain attributes are preset and are always returned by this data source. These attributes cannot be removed or changed
  in the Personio Admin interface. If an attribute is not configured as a readable attribute of the API credential,
  its value will be null. See attributes described as "preset"
  in the Personio documentation https://support.personio.de/hc/en-us/articles/115002250165-Best-Practice-Sections-and-Attributes.
  Dynamic attributes can be configured per tenant, and may have different types. All of them are converted to a
  string representation in Terraform.
  Currently supported Personio API data types with their conversions are
  * integer/decimal -> number
  * date -> RFC3339 formatted string in UTC timezone
  * links -> string
  * standard -> string
  * multiline -> string
  Tag attributes are converted to a list of strings.
  Limitations
  All dynamic employee attributes are converted to strings. This is due to employee attributes being
  different for each tenant. Dynamic attributes on map values are not supported out of the box by Terraform.Time attributes are returned in UTC timezone.
---

# personio_employee (Data Source)

Employee data source

Retrieves one employee by Personio ID and their attributes. The set of attributes that have a non-null value
is defined by the configuration of the API credential in Personio ("Readable employee attributes").

Certain attributes are preset and are always returned by this data source. These attributes cannot be removed or changed
in the Personio Admin interface. If an attribute is not configured as a readable attribute of the API credential,
its value will be `null`. See attributes described as "preset"
[in the Personio documentation](https://support.personio.de/hc/en-us/articles/115002250165-Best-Practice-Sections-and-Attributes).

Dynamic attributes can be configured per tenant, and may have different types. All of them are converted to a
string representation in Terraform.
Currently supported Personio API data types with their conversions are
* integer/decimal -> number
* date -> RFC3339 formatted string in UTC timezone
* links -> string
* standard -> string
* multiline -> string

Tag attributes are converted to a list of strings.

## Limitations

- All *dynamic* employee attributes are converted to strings. This is due to employee attributes being
  different for each tenant. Dynamic attributes on map values are not supported out of the box by Terraform.
- Time attributes are returned in UTC timezone.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "personio_employee" "example" {
  id = 12345 # The Personio employee ID to load. Fails if it does not exist
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (Number) Personio Employee ID

### Optional

- `format` (Block Set) Configuration of formatters that are applied to a given employee dynamic attribute (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--format))

### Read-Only

- `employee` (Attributes) The requested employee and their attributes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--employee))

<a id="nestedblock--format"></a>
### Nested Schema for `format`

Required:

- `attribute` (String) The dynamic attribute key that should be formatted.

Optional:

- `phonenumber` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--format--phonenumber))

<a id="nestedatt--format--phonenumber"></a>
### Nested Schema for `format.phonenumber`

Required:

- `default_region` (String) Default region for the phone number, if not clear from the number.

Optional:

- `format` (String) Can be one of the following values (example is the number of the Google Switzerland office):
- E164 &#8594; e.g. +41446681800
- INTERNATIONAL &#8594; e.g. +41 44 668 1800
- NATIONAL &#8594; e.g. 044 668 1800
- RFC3966 &#8594; e.g. tel:+41-44-668-1800



<a id="nestedatt--employee"></a>
### Nested Schema for `employee`

Read-Only:

- `created_at` (String) Creation date of the employee record
- `dynamic_attributes` (Map of String) Additional dynamic attributes of the employee.
- `email` (String) Email address of the employee
- `first_name` (String) First name
- `hr_info` (Attributes) HR Information about the employee (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--employee--hr_info))
- `id` (Number) Personio Employee ID
- `last_modified_at` (String) Last modification date of employee record
- `last_name` (String) Last name
- `profile` (Attributes) Public profile attributes of an employee (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--employee--profile))
- `salary_data` (Attributes) Salary data of the employee (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--employee--salary_data))
- `status` (String) Status of the employee (active,...)
- `tag_attributes` (Map of Set of String) Attributes of the employee that are stored as multi-select from a predefined list.

<a id="nestedatt--employee--hr_info"></a>
### Nested Schema for `employee.hr_info`

Read-Only:

- `contract_end_date` (String) Creation date of the employee record
- `employment_type` (String) Employment type (`internal` or `external`)
- `hire_date` (String) Hire date
- `last_working_day` (String) Last working day of employee
- `position` (String) Position of employee
- `probation_period_end` (String) End of probation period
- `termination_date` (String) Termination date
- `termination_reason` (String) Termination date
- `termination_type` (String) Termination date
- `vacation_day_balance` (Number) Vacation day balance
- `weekly_working_hours` (Number) Weekly working hours


<a id="nestedatt--employee--profile"></a>
### Nested Schema for `employee.profile`

Read-Only:

- `department` (String) Department name
- `department_id` (Number) Department ID
- `gender` (String) Gender
- `subcompany` (String) Subcompany
- `supervisor` (Attributes) Supervisor of the employee (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--employee--profile--supervisor))
- `team` (String) Team name
- `team_id` (Number) Team ID

<a id="nestedatt--employee--profile--supervisor"></a>
### Nested Schema for `employee.profile.supervisor`

Read-Only:

- `email` (String) Email address of the employee
- `first_name` (String) First name
- `id` (Number) Personio Employee ID
- `last_name` (String) Last name



<a id="nestedatt--employee--salary_data"></a>
### Nested Schema for `employee.salary_data`

Read-Only:

- `fix_salary` (Number) Fixed salary amount
- `fix_salary_interval` (String) Fixed salary interval
- `hourly_salary` (Number) Hourly salary amount


