---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "personio_employees Data Source - terraform-provider-personio"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Employees data source
  Retrieves all employees and their attributes. The set of attributes that have a non-null value
  is defined by the configuration of the API credential in Personio ("Readable employee attributes").
  Certain attributes are preset and are always returned by this data source. These attributes cannot be removed or changed
  in the Personio Admin interface. If an attribute is not configured as a readable attribute of the API credential,
  its value will be null. See attributes described as "preset"
  in the Personio documentation https://support.personio.de/hc/en-us/articles/115002250165-Best-Practice-Sections-and-Attributes.
  Dynamic attributes can be configured per tenant, and may have different types. All of them are converted to a
  string representation in Terraform.
  Currently supported Personio API data types with their conversions are
  * integer/decimal -> number
  * date -> RFC3339 formatted string in UTC timezone
  * links -> string
  * standard -> string
  * multiline -> string
  Tag attributes are converted to a list of strings.
  Limitations
  All dynamic employee attributes are converted to strings. This is due to employee attributes being
  different for each tenant. Dynamic attributes on map values are not supported out of the box by Terraform.Time attributes are returned in UTC timezone.
---

# personio_employees (Data Source)

Employees data source

Retrieves all employees and their attributes. The set of attributes that have a non-null value
is defined by the configuration of the API credential in Personio ("Readable employee attributes").

Certain attributes are preset and are always returned by this data source. These attributes cannot be removed or changed
in the Personio Admin interface. If an attribute is not configured as a readable attribute of the API credential,
its value will be `null`. See attributes described as "preset"
[in the Personio documentation](https://support.personio.de/hc/en-us/articles/115002250165-Best-Practice-Sections-and-Attributes).

Dynamic attributes can be configured per tenant, and may have different types. All of them are converted to a
string representation in Terraform.
Currently supported Personio API data types with their conversions are
* integer/decimal -> number
* date -> RFC3339 formatted string in UTC timezone
* links -> string
* standard -> string
* multiline -> string

Tag attributes are converted to a list of strings.

## Limitations

- All dynamic employee attributes are converted to strings. This is due to employee attributes being
  different for each tenant. Dynamic attributes on map values are not supported out of the box by Terraform.
- Time attributes are returned in UTC timezone.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "personio_employees" "example" {
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Read-Only

- `employees` (Attributes List) List of employees and their attributes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--employees))
- `id` (String) Identifier

<a id="nestedatt--employees"></a>
### Nested Schema for `employees`

Read-Only:

- `contract_end_date` (String) Creation date of the employee record
- `created_at` (String) Creation date of the employee record
- `department` (String) Department name
- `dynamic_attributes` (Map of String) Additional dynamic attributes of the employee.
- `email` (String) Email address of the employee
- `employment_type` (String) Employment type (`internal` or `external`)
- `first_name` (String) First name
- `fix_salary` (Number) Fixed salary amount
- `fix_salary_interval` (String) Fixed salary interval
- `gender` (String) Gender
- `hire_date` (String) Hire date
- `hourly_salary` (Number) Hourly salary amount
- `id` (Number) Personio Employee ID
- `last_modified_at` (String) Last modification date of employee record
- `last_name` (String) Last name
- `last_working_day` (String) Last working day of employee
- `position` (String) Position of employee
- `probation_period_end` (String) End of probation period
- `status` (String) Status of the employee (active,...)
- `subcompany` (String) Subcompany
- `supervisor` (Object) Supervisor of the employee (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--employees--supervisor))
- `tag_attributes` (Map of Set of String) Attributes of the employee that are stored as multi-select from a predefined list.
- `team` (String) Team name
- `termination_date` (String) Termination date
- `termination_reason` (String) Termination date
- `termination_type` (String) Termination date
- `vacation_day_balance` (Number) Vacation day balance
- `weekly_working_hours` (Number) Weekly working hours

<a id="nestedatt--employees--supervisor"></a>
### Nested Schema for `employees.supervisor`

Read-Only:

- `email` (String)
- `first_name` (String)
- `id` (Number)
- `last_name` (String)


